documents/User-Guide-CLI.md, before:

# Users Guide

## _Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI_

### Introduction

The intention of this document is to provide a basic user guide to the **Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI**. This easy to use toolkit was designed for both technical and non-technical users, even though the primarily users would likely be Quality Assurance (QA) resources. By following this guide, users will have a better understand of the capabilities and functionality of the cli.

The **Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI** was designed for participants that would like to participate in the Mojaloop scheme. Intentionally build as a standard integration testing tool between a _Digital Financial Service Provider (DFSP)_ and the _Mojaloop Switch_ (Hub), to facilitate testing. This tool set can potentially be used by both the DFSP and the _Mojaloop Switch_ to verify the integration between the 2 entities.

For additional back ground information on the Self Testing Toolkit, please see [Mojaloop Testing Toolkit](/documents/Mojaloop-Testing-Tool.md). It would be to the particpant's benefit to familiarise themselves with the understanding of the  [Architecture Diagram](/documents/MojaloopÂ-Testing-Tool.md#7-architecture) that explains the various components and related flows.


**Table of Contents**

1. [Getting Started](#1-getting-started)

2. [The Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI](#2-the-mojaloop-testing-toolkit)

    2.1 [Help screen](#21-at-first-glance)

    2.2 [Monitoring Mode](#22-monitoring-mode)

    2.3 [Outbound Mode](#23-outbound-mode)

### 1. Getting Started

To get started, please follow the instructions in the [README](/README.md) document. This document covers the use-cases with the **Mojaloop Simulator**.

### 2. CLI

#### 2.1 Help screen

The help screen allows you to see the usage, possible options and default values

command: 

```
node src/cli_client/client -h
```

output:

```
Usage: client [options]

Options:
  -v, --version                       output the version number
  -c, --config <config>               default configuration: {"mode": "outbound", "reportFormat": "json"}
  -m, --mode <mode>                   default: "outbound" --- supported modes: "monitoring", "outbound"
  -i, --input-file <inputFile>        required when the mode is "outbound" --- supported formats: "json"
  --report-format <reportFormat>      default: "json" --- supported formats: "json", "html", "printhtml"
  --report-filename <reportFilename>  default: generated by the backend
  -h, --help                          output usage information
```

#### 2.2 Monitoring Mode

The monitoring mode allows you to monitor _incoming_ requests from the **Mojaloop Simulator**.

#### Example

command:

```
node src/cli_client/client -m monitoring
```

output:

```
Listening on newLog events...
2020-05-12T12:23:32.988Z INFO   (15892862129885sy33i)   Request: post /bulkTransfers
{
  "request": {
    "uniqueId": "15892862129885sy33i",
    "headers": {
      "content-type": "application/vnd.interoperability.parties+json;version=1.0",
      "accept": "application/vnd.interoperability.parties+json;version=1.0",
      "fspiop-source": "testingtoolkitdfsp",
      "date": "Tue, 12 May 2020 12:23:32 GMT",
      "user-agent": "axios/0.19.2",
      "content-length": "256",
      "host": "localhost:5000",
      "connection": "close"
    },
    "body": {
      "bulkTransferId": "202137c6-2ca9-429d-b03b-41d5cf19258c",
      "bulkQuoteId": "8823f09e-728c-4e04-b718-d17a24e55bb0",
      "payerFsp": "string",
      "payeeFsp": "string",
      "expiration": "2020-01-01T10:10:10.000Z",
      "extensionList": {
        "extension": [
          {
            "key": "string",
            "value": "string"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You could Send Transfer from postman or execute outbound mode with an example from examples/test-cases folder

#### 2.3 Outbound Mode

This sections will enable you to intiate requests from the cli to your DFSP implementation.

The user can create a collection of operations and add a number of assertions to these operations. The assertions can be setup and customized to support your testing requirements and verify both positive and negative requests and responses. 

#### Default values

mode:
  - outbound

reportName:
  - reportFormat is json: ${test-name}-${date-now}.json
  - reportFormat is html/printhtml format: value is generated by the service responsible for converting the json to the given format

#### Exit codes

The CLI tool is able to return the proper exit codes in case of success and failures. This will enable this tool to use in automation systems (CICD).

  - 0: all assertions passed
  - 1: there is at least 1 failed assertion

#### Example

command:

```
node src/cli_client/client -m outbound -i examples/test-cases/sample.json
```

output:

```
Listening on outboundProgress events...
 ████████████████████████████████████████ 100% | ETA: 0s | 3/3
--------------------TEST CASES--------------------
P2P Transfer Happy Path
        Get party information - GET - /parties/{Type}/{ID} - [2/2]
        Get quote - POST - /quotes - [4/4]
        Send transfer - POST - /transfers - [3/3]
--------------------TEST CASES--------------------
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        SUMMARY                        │
├───────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total assertions      │ 9                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Passed assertions     │ 9                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Failed assertions     │ 0                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total requests        │ 3                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total test cases      │ 1                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Passed percentage     │ 100.00%                       │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Started time          │ Tue, 12 May 2020 10:56:32 GMT │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Completed time        │ Tue, 12 May 2020 10:56:33 GMT │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Runtime duration      │ 1111 ms                       │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Average response time │ NA                            │
└───────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┘
Test1-2020-05-12T10:56:36.723Z.json was generated
Terminate with exit code 0
```

Commit message:

Feature/1395 test case collections for hub (#57)
* add more examples for hub implementation

* add duplicate_handling_transfers for hub

* fix an issue with environment vars and callbacks

* fix $prev missing issue

* update cli_client implementation and documentation

* update cli_client unit tests

* bump version

* update testing toolkit documentation

* postpone audit:resolve

* update documentation

* update documentation

* Update outbound.js

* refactor

Co-authored-by: vijayg10 <33152110+vijayg10@users.noreply.github.com>

documents/User-Guide-CLI.md, after:

# Users Guide

## _Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI_

### Introduction

The intention of this document is to provide a basic user guide to the **Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI**. This easy to use toolkit was designed for both technical and non-technical users, even though the primarily users would likely be Quality Assurance (QA) resources. By following this guide, users will have a better understand of the capabilities and functionality of the cli.

The **Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI** was designed for participants that would like to participate in the Mojaloop scheme. Intentionally build as a standard integration testing tool between a _Digital Financial Service Provider (DFSP)_ and the _Mojaloop Switch_ (Hub), to facilitate testing. This tool set can potentially be used by both the DFSP and the _Mojaloop Switch_ to verify the integration between the 2 entities.

For additional back ground information on the Self Testing Toolkit, please see [Mojaloop Testing Toolkit](/documents/Mojaloop-Testing-Tool.md). It would be to the particpant's benefit to familiarise themselves with the understanding of the  [Architecture Diagram](/documents/MojaloopÂ-Testing-Tool.md#7-architecture) that explains the various components and related flows.


**Table of Contents**

1. [Getting Started](#1-getting-started)

2. [The Mojaloop Testing Toolkit CLI](#2-the-mojaloop-testing-toolkit)

    2.1 [Help screen](#21-at-first-glance)

    2.2 [Monitoring Mode](#22-monitoring-mode)

    2.3 [Outbound Mode](#23-outbound-mode)

### 1. Getting Started

To get started, please follow the instructions in the [README](/README.md) document. This document covers the use-cases with the **Mojaloop Simulator**.

### 2. CLI

#### 2.1 Help screen

The help screen allows you to see the usage, possible options and default values

command: 

```
node src/cli_client/client -h
```

output:

```
Usage: client [options]

Options:
  -v, --version                             output the version number
  -c, --config <config>                     default configuration: {"mode": "outbound", "reportFormat": "json"}
  -m, --mode <mode>                         default: "outbound" --- supported modes: "monitoring", "outbound"
  -i, --input-files <inputFiles>            csv list of json files or directories; required when the mode is "outbound" --- supported formats: "json"
  -e, --environment-file <environmentFile>  required when the mode is "outbound" --- supported formats: "json"
  --report-format <reportFormat>            default: "json" --- supported formats: "json", "html", "printhtml"
  --report-filename <reportFilename>        default: generated by the backend
  -h, --help                                output usage information
```

#### 2.2 Monitoring Mode

The monitoring mode allows you to monitor _incoming_ requests from the **Mojaloop Simulator**.

#### Example

command:

```
node src/cli_client/client -m monitoring
```

output:

```
Listening on newLog events...
2020-05-12T12:23:32.988Z INFO   (15892862129885sy33i)   Request: post /bulkTransfers
{
  "request": {
    "uniqueId": "15892862129885sy33i",
    "headers": {
      "content-type": "application/vnd.interoperability.parties+json;version=1.0",
      "accept": "application/vnd.interoperability.parties+json;version=1.0",
      "fspiop-source": "testingtoolkitdfsp",
      "date": "Tue, 12 May 2020 12:23:32 GMT",
      "user-agent": "axios/0.19.2",
      "content-length": "256",
      "host": "localhost:5000",
      "connection": "close"
    },
    "body": {
      "bulkTransferId": "202137c6-2ca9-429d-b03b-41d5cf19258c",
      "bulkQuoteId": "8823f09e-728c-4e04-b718-d17a24e55bb0",
      "payerFsp": "string",
      "payeeFsp": "string",
      "expiration": "2020-01-01T10:10:10.000Z",
      "extensionList": {
        "extension": [
          {
            "key": "string",
            "value": "string"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You could Send Transfer from postman or execute outbound mode with an example from examples/test-cases folder

#### 2.3 Outbound Mode

This sections will enable you to intiate requests from the cli to your DFSP implementation.

The user can create a collection of operations and add a number of assertions to these operations. The assertions can be setup and customized to support your testing requirements and verify both positive and negative requests and responses. 

#### Default values

config:
  - cli-default-config.json : {"mode": "outbound", "reportFormat": "json"}
mode:
  - outbound
reportFormat:
  - json
reportName:
  - when reportFormat is json: ${test-name}-${date-now}.json
  - when reportFormat is html/printhtml format: value is generated by the service responsible for converting the json to the given format

#### Exit codes

The CLI tool is able to return the proper exit codes in case of success and failures. This will enable this tool to use in automation systems (CICD).

  - 0: all assertions passed
  - 1: there is at least 1 failed assertion

#### Example

command:

```
node src/cli_client/client -m outbound -i examples/test-cases/sample.json
```

output:

```
Listening on outboundProgress events...
 ████████████████████████████████████████ 100% | ETA: 0s | 3/3
--------------------TEST CASES--------------------
P2P Transfer Happy Path
        Get party information - GET - /parties/{Type}/{ID} - [2/2]
        Get quote - POST - /quotes - [4/4]
        Send transfer - POST - /transfers - [3/3]
--------------------TEST CASES--------------------
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        SUMMARY                        │
├───────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total assertions      │ 9                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Passed assertions     │ 9                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Failed assertions     │ 0                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total requests        │ 3                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Total test cases      │ 1                             │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Passed percentage     │ 100.00%                       │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Started time          │ Tue, 12 May 2020 10:56:32 GMT │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Completed time        │ Tue, 12 May 2020 10:56:33 GMT │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Runtime duration      │ 1111 ms                       │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┤
│ Average response time │ NA                            │
└───────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┘
Test1-2020-05-12T10:56:36.723Z.json was generated
Terminate with exit code 0
```
